# 06 - PendSV Interrupt

From my research so far it seems that the SysTick ISR, while responsible for running the scheduler, will not actually perform the context switch. RTOS's standardly use PendSV (Pending Supervisor Call) instead.

PendSV is a software trigger exception. It can be triggered by the memory mapped `ICSR` register. Specifically by setting the `PENDSVSET` bit to 1 (bit 28).

Per the [ARM docs](https://developer.arm.com/documentation/107706/0100/System-exceptions/Pended-SVC---PendSV), PendSV is typically configured to have the lowest interrupt priority. Considering that a context switch is pure overhead, using the lowest priority allows other time sensitive operations to complete.

The [exception number](https://developer.arm.com/documentation/dui0497/a/the-cortex-m0-processor/exception-model/exception-types) of PendSV is 14, and setting the priority can be done via the memory mapped `SHPR3` register. Bits 23:22 are used to configure the priority, with `0b11` (3) being the lowest priority.

## Exception vs Interrupt

Something that maybe wasn't super clear to me was an interrupt vs an exception. I orginally thought we would be configuring priortiy of PendSV with the `NVIC_IPR3` Register, since it can be used to assign priority to interrupt 14. I was confusing ___interrupt 14___ for ___exception 14___. PendSV has an IRQ number of -2. It seems that an interrupt is a _type of exception_ generated by software or a hardware peripheral. There are other types of exceptions like HardFault, Reset, and Non-Maskable Interrupts (NMI).

In the [ARM docs](https://developer.arm.com/documentation/dui0497/a/the-cortex-m0-processor/exception-model/exception-types) you can see that ther are exception numbers, and IRQ numbers. There is a footnote on the table that states "CMSIS only uses IRQ numbers and therefore uses negative values for exceptions other than interrupts".

## Exercise 9: Configure PendSV priority and trigger from SysTick

Similar to what will happen in a context switch, lets write a program that sets PendSV as pending from the SysTick ISR. I would also like to confirm the priority of PendSV, so maybe we can print that in it's ISR.

Just like SysTick, PendSV is defined as a weak link in [crt0.s](https://github.com/raspberrypi/pico-sdk/blob/master/src/rp2_common/pico_crt0/crt0.S#L335-L335), and thus can be overwritten.

